HttpContext-not-thread-safe /3 (#25701)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/http-context.md

no-loc: [".NET MAUI", "Mac Catalyst", "Blazor Hybrid", Home, Privacy, Kestrel, appsettings.json, "ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: fundamentals/httpcontext
---
# Access HttpContext in ASP.NET Core

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

ASP.NET Core apps access `HttpContext` through the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IHttpContextAccessor> interface and its default implementation <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContextAccessor>. It's only necessary to use `IHttpContextAccessor` when you need access to the `HttpContext` inside a service.

## HttpContext isn't thread safe

This article primarily discusses using `HttpContext` in request and response flow from ASP.NET Core MVC, Razor Pages, controllers, middleware, etc. Consider the following when using `HttpContext` outside the request and response flow:

* The `HttpContext` is **NOT** thread safe, accessing it from multiple threads can result in null access violations and unpredictable results.
* The `HttpContext` may be captured outside of the request flow when using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IHttpContextAccessor>.

> * [IHttpContextAccessor.HttpContext](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IHttpContextAccessor.HttpContext) may be null if accessed outside of the request and response flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IHttpContextAccessor.HttpContext%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> may be null if accessed outside of the request and response flow.
```

> * Don't capture the `HttpContext` property of the `IHttpContextAccessor` in a constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Don't capture `IHttpContextAccessor.HttpContext` in a constructor.
```

The following sample uses the `EmailService` to send simulated email when requested from the `/send` endpoint:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/http-context/samples/6.x/HttpContextInBackgroundThread/Program.cs?highlight=5-6,12)]

The following code shows the `EmailService` interface and implementation:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/http-context/samples/6.x/HttpContextInBackgroundThread/EmailService.cs)]

Requests to `/send` show the user agent making the request.

> The application also includes `NewsletterService`, which sends an email using every 30 seconds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application also includes `NewsletterService`, which sends an email using `EmailService` every 30 seconds:
```

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/http-context/samples/6.x/HttpContextInBackgroundThread/Program.cs?highlight=7)]

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/http-context/samples/6.x/HttpContextInBackgroundThread/NewsletterService.cs)]

> Email sent from the `NewsletterService` has a null `HttpContext`. The `EmailService` was written not to depend on the `HttpContext`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NewsletterService` is a <xref:fundamentals/host/hosted-services>, which runs outside the request and response flow. Email sent from the `NewsletterService` has a null `HttpContext`. The `EmailService` was written to not depend on the `HttpContext`.
```

monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 4/21/2022
no-loc: [".NET MAUI", "Mac Catalyst", "Blazor Hybrid", Home, Privacy, Kestrel, appsettings.json, "ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: fundamentals/httpcontext
---
# Access HttpContext in ASP.NET Core

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

ASP.NET Core apps access `HttpContext` through the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IHttpContextAccessor> interface and its default implementation <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContextAccessor>. It's only necessary to use `IHttpContextAccessor` when you need access to the `HttpContext` inside a service.

## HttpContext isn't thread safe

This article primarily discusses using `HttpContext` in request and response flow from ASP.NET Core MVC, Razor Pages, controllers, middleware, etc. Consider the following when using `HttpContext` outside the request and response flow:

* The `HttpContext` is **NOT** thread safe, accessing it from multiple threads can result in null access violations and unpredictable results.

> * The `HttpContext` may be captured outside of the request flow when using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IHttpContextAccessor>. The `IHttpContextAccessor` interface should be used with caution. `IHttpContextAccessor`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IHttpContextAccessor> interface should be used with caution. As always, the `HttpContext` must not be captured outside of the request flow.  `IHttpContextAccessor`:
```

  * Creates a dependency on "ambient state" which can make testing more difficult.
* To access information from `HttpContext` outside the request flow, copy the information inside the request flow.
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IHttpContextAccessor.HttpContext%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> may be null if accessed outside of the request flow.
* Don't capture `IHttpContextAccessor.HttpContext` in a constructor.

The following sample uses the `EmailService` to send simulated email when requested from the `/send` endpoint:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/http-context/samples/6.x/HttpContextInBackgroundThread/Program.cs?highlight=5-6,12)]

The following code shows the `EmailService` interface and implementation:

[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/http-context/samples/6.x/HttpContextInBackgroundThread/EmailService.cs)]

Requests to `/send` logs the user agent making the request. In the preceding code, when the `HttpContext` is `null`, the `userAgent` string is set to `"Unknown"`. Services should account for the possibility of `HttpContext` being `null` when not called from a request thread:

> [!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/http-context/samples/6.x/HttpContextInBackgroundThread/EmailService.cs?highlight=12,29-30)]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[!code-csharp[](~/fundamentals/http-context/samples/6.x/HttpContextInBackgroundThread/EmailService.cs?highlight=12,29)]
```
